---
layout: post
title: How to make a chat app
---

XMPP
====
tldr It is a IM protocol that use XML, it is decentialized, and XML itself contain rounting info, and it is the server that doing all the heavy work :P


first questin about a IM protocal is how you set a identity? and on a decentrialized architecure?```[longwei]@[server.com]/[resource]```

then it is server's job to route the message to other xmpp server. the same way you make a call from tmobile to att.
It is the server that doing the hard job.

message setup
===
* create TCP connect
* bidirection xml stream
* TLS handshake
* auth/resouce binding.
* message/presence

XML stream are exchanged, and each one is a set of stanzas. it could be async based on event-loop.

example of connecting

```
<stream: stream to='jabber.org'
    xmlns='jabber:client'
    xmlns:stream=''http://foobar/stream
          version='1.0'>
```
valid xml stazas contains presence message and iq

presence
---

1. type:"availabel"/"unavailabel"
2. to: optinal
3. from:
4. show:"away”/”chat”/”dnd”/”xa”
5. status: ""showering. . ."


```
send:
<presence type=’available’>
<status>showering...</status>
</presence>

received:
<presence type=’unavailable’>
from=’user@server.tld/resource’>
<status>Disconnected</status>
</presence>
```

message stanza
---
to: target JID, 
from: source JID
type: normal/chat/groupchat

children node:
  ```
  <subject>
  <body>
  <thread>
  <x>
  ```

```
<message to=’saddam@jabber.gov.iq’ type=’normal’>
<subject>WMD?</subject>
<body>Hey, do you have any WMD?</body>
</message>

<message to=’gwb@whitehouse.gov’
from=’saddam@jabber.gov.iq/ak47’
type=’normal’>
<subject>Re: WMD?</subject>
<body>Nop, I don’t have any.</body>
</message>

```

iq
---
Client requests server-side filter-list:

```
<iq type=’get’ id=’request1’>
<query xmlns=’jabber:iq:filter’/>
</iq>

<iq from=’user@server.tld’ type=’result’ id=’request1’>
<query xmlns=’jabber:iq:filter’>
<rule>
<body>moin</body>
<reply>tachauch</reply>
<continue/>
</rule>
</query>
</iq>

```

multi-party and notification
---

like IRC but with room configuration, in-room voting, and various session control messages.
notification is slim version of one-way group chat

Service discoery
---
enables you to find out which features are supported by another entity, as well as any additional entities that are associated with it 

misc
---
roster: contact list


Peer-to-peer media sessions
---
defined in XEP-0166,negotiate and manage a media session with another entity. Such a session can be used for the purpose of voice chat, video chat, file transfer, and other real-time interactions.
