---
layout: post
title: notes on Spanner: Google’s Globally-Distributed Database 
---



distributed transaction: sharding, A do a, B do b, C do c, (a,b,c) all or none

raft: A,B,C replication do a, then most of the node agree

what if the user just want SQL and whole transcational database experience?
it is a semi-relational model on top of a kv store, which a SQL on top.


the kv store consist of spans managed by the spanservers. 
each span is 1k tablet, which have replication and placement.
tablet is a bag(duplicatable bag) of (key, ts) -> value, each managed by independent paxos
at SQL leveel, app delcare hierachy between SQL tables, to co-live two tables in one tablet.
spanner provide distributed transacation with 2PC, it is slower in multi-region config.
so it is better the app dev model the schema that don't require distributed transaction.

TrueTime allows the system to produce monotonic timestamps efficiently, the need for custom hardware has gone away with the invention or Hybrid Logical Clocks


The paper also describes a bunch of Paxos related optimizations that make running lots and lots of Paxos state machines practical

downsides of layering SQL on top of a key-value store: "node-local data structures have [...] poor performance on complex SQL [...], because they were designed for [...] key-value access". 

checkout tikv.org/deep-dive/introduction/ which goes over building a transactional SQL layer on top of a consensus backed key-value store, similar to Spanner tablet model.
The use of the TrueTime API (bounded of time of day)to support externally consistent transactions without resorting to routing all reads to a single leader


https://twitter.com/penberg/status/1608758159124090881
